pwd - print working directory / present working directory,

cd - change directory,

cd .. - move back in the working directory,

cd/mnt/e - moves to the e drive,

mkdir - makes a directory, to use a name with space put the name inside "",

touch - lets you create empty files,

cat - prints the contents of a file,

vi - lets you edit files, also known as vim command,

mv - move the files from one folder to another, (the first file one moves to the second one),

cp - lets you copy files, (to copy folders use cp -r test newFolder),

nvm - node version manger, install node from the command line using this command.

/* Advance Bash */

ls command comes with a lot of features such as details of a file or folder

ls -l : tells about the owner, directory, last modified date and the file/folder name

ls -R directory_name : details about the sub directory,

ls -la directory_name : even shows the hidden files and folders, "." ones represent the hidden ones.

ls -lr directory_name : shows the modified directory in reverse order

ls -s directory_name : lists directory by size

ls *.json : get all the files with only .json extension

cat > filename.txt : To edit the file in the bash itself, if you save it and edit again , it will override the existing one.

cat >> filename.txt : To concatenate with already existing stuffs in the file.

how can you use multiple commands together ? 

makdir test && cd test

mkdir -p frontend/scripts : To recursively create folders in one go.

mv : used for both renameing as well as moving folders and files.

cp : to copy files, folders from one place to another

rm : remove files and folders

rm-r : removes entire folder with sub folders

-rwx : not a command but stands for read, write and execute

chmod -R ugo -rwx: read write and execute, changing the permission of a file or folder, u for user, g for group and o for others

chmod u+x filename.extension : Add permission

chmod u-x filename.extension : remove permission

echo "Hello World" : Prin something directly into the bash / terminal

head filename.txt : gives the first ten lines of the file, 

head -20 filename.txt : to get more than 10 lines use the -number option

tail filename.txt : to get last ten lines of the file

wc : word count

grep : lets you find occurances of certain words/phrases or regular expression

history : gives you all the commands that you have executed till date.

